Establishing protected areas with intact ecosystems is essential for species conservation. It is, however, shortsighted to rely solely on protected areas to preserve biodiversity. Such reliance can create a paradoxical situation in which species and ecosystems inside the protected areas are preserved while the same species and ecosystems outside are allowed to be damaged, which in turn results in the decline of biodiversity within the protected areas. This is due in part to the fact that many species must migrate across protected area boundaries to access resources that the protected area itself cannot provide. In India, for example, tigers leave their protected areas to hunt in the surrounding human-dominated landscape. In general, the smaller the protected area, the more it depends on unprotected neighboring lands for the long-term maintenance of biodiversity. Unprotected areas, including those immediately outside protected areas, are thus crucial to an overall conservation strategy.
Our kitchens owe much to the brilliance of science, and a cook experimenting with mixtures at the stove is often not very different from a chemist in the lab: we add vinegar to red cabbage to fix the color and use baking soda to counteract the acidity of lemon in the cake. It is wrong to suppose, however, that technology is just the appliance of scientific thought. It is something more basic and older than this. Not every culture has had formal sciencea form of organized knowledge about the universe that starts with Aristotle in the fourth century BC. The modern scientific method, in which experiments form part of a structured system of hypothesis, experimentation, and analysis is as recent as the seventeenth century; the problem-solving technology of cooking goes back thousands of years. Since the earliest Stone Age humans cut raw food with sharpened flints, we have always used invention to devise better ways to feed ourselves.
While there is no denying that exceptional players like Emmitt Smith can put points on the board and enhance team success, new research suggests there is a limit to the benefit top talents bring to a team. Researchers compared the amount of individual talent on teams with the teams’ success, and they found striking examples of  more talent hurting the team. The researchers looked at three sports: basketball, soccer, and baseball. In each sport, they calculated both the percentage of top talent on each team and the teams’ success over several years. For both basketball and soccer, they found that top talent did in fact predict team success, but only up to a point. Furthermore, there was not simply a point of diminishing returns with respect to top talent; there was in fact a cost. Basketball and soccer teams with the greatest proportion of elite athletes performed worse than those with more moderate proportions of top level players.
Once a hand or gripper has been directed to an object by reaching, it can be grasped. Grasping requires that fingers hold an object securely. A secure grip is one in which the object won’t slip or move, especially when displaced by an external force. Your grasp on a hammer, for example, would not be secure if knocking against something caused you to drop it. One precondition of a firm grasp is that the forces applied by the fingers balance each other so as not to disturb the object’s position. The characteristics of an object such as its geometric configuration and mass distribution may demand that some fingers apply greater force than others to maintain stability. The grasp and support forces must also match overall object mass and fragility. An egg requires a more delicate touch than a rock.
What story could be harsher than that of the Great Auk, the large black-and-white seabird that in northern oceans took the ecological place of a penguin? Its tale rises and falls like a Greek tragedy, with island populations savagely destroyed by humans until almost all were gone. Then the very last colony found safety on a special island, one protected from the destruction of humankind by vicious and unpredictable ocean currents. These waters presented no problem to perfectly adapted seagoing birds, but they prevented humans from making any kind of safe landing. After enjoying a few years of comparative safety, disaster of a different kind struck the Great Auk. Volcanic activity caused the island refuge to sink completely beneath the waves, and surviving individuals were forced to find shelter elsewhere. The new island home they chose lacked the benefits of the oldin one terrible way. Humans could access it with comparative ease, and they did! Within just a few years the last of this once-plentiful species was entirely eliminated.
It is not hard to see that a strong economy, where opportunities are plentiful and jobs go begging, helps break down social barriers. Biased employers may still dislike hiring members of one group or another, but when nobody else is available, discrimination most often gives way to the basic need to get the work done. The same goes for employees with prejudices about whom they do and do not like working alongside. In the American construction boom of the late 1990s, for example, even the carpenters’ union―long known as a “traditional bastion of white men, a world where a coveted union card was handed down from father to son”―began openly encouraging women, blacks, and Hispanics to join its internship program. At least in the workplace, jobs chasing people obviously does more to promote a fluid society than people chasing jobs.
One remarkable aspect of aboriginal culture is the concept of “totemism,” where the tribal member at birth assumes the soul and identity of a part of nature. This view of the earth and its riches as an intrinsic part of oneself clearly rules out mistreatment of the environment because this would only constitute a destruction of self. Totems are more than objects. They include spiritual rituals, oral histories, and the organization of ceremonial lodges where records of the past travel routes of the soul can be exchanged with others and converted to mythology. The primary motivation is the preservation of tribal myths and a consolidation and sharing of every individual’s origins in nature. The aborigines see their relationship to the environment as a single harmonious continuum, through a hierarchy of totems that connect to their ancestral origins, a cosmology that places them at one with the earth, and behavior patterns that respect ecological balance.
If you increase people’s awareness of time―by placing a big clock in front of them―they do more stuff. Think about how much work you get done on the day before vacation. It makes sense that by getting more done, we’d feel more in control. More than that, it’s one of the great fantasies of time management: If you get more organized, you will get on top. However, that works only in a finite world. We haven’t lived in that world for quite a while. In our infinite world, we will never be able to get on top of everything. When we complete more tasks, more take their place―send more e­mails, get more replies. If we do more as a result of better managing our time, we just become busier
With the invention of typography, spacing and punctuation solidified from gap and gesture to physical artifact. Punctuation marks, which were used differently from one scribe to another in the manuscript era, became part of the standardized, rule­bound system of the printed page. The communications scholar Walter Ong has shown how printing converted the word into a visual object precisely located in space: “Alphabet letterpress printing, in which each letter was cast on a separate piece of metal, or type, marked a psychological breakthrough of the first order.... Writing moves words from the sound world to the world of visual space, but print locks words into position in this space.” Typography made text into a thing, a material object with known dimensions and fixed locations.
A sleeping mother has the ability to identify the particular cry of her own baby. This is one of the bonding factors that has been forgotten because of the way in which we live today. Typically, there is now only one newborn baby in any family house or apartment, so there is no way to test this ability. In an ancient tribe, however, living in small huts in a tiny village settlement, a mother would have been able to hear any of the babies crying in the night. If she woke up everytime one of them screamed for food, she might get no sleepat all. During the course of evolution she became programmed to awake only at the sound of her own particular baby. This sensitivityis still there to this day, even though it is seldom used.
